Alan there's been another incident along
the Israel Lebanon Border in the South
and Israel saying that civilians were
wounded what more are you hearing about
this we're hearing that six people were
hit when uh 9 tank missile was fired
across the border from uh Lebanon into
the northern part of Israel of the six
people one of them is in a critical
condition we understand that they were
Electrical Workers who were repairing
lines that had been hit in a previous
attack now it comes just a few hours
after y Galant the Israeli defense
minister visited Army units on the
northern border and he warned Hezbollah
that if they continued with their
provocations to try and distract
distract the Israeli Army from their
operations in Gaza then they would face
what people have been experiencing in
Gaza essentially threatening the
independent state of Lebanon now
Hezbollah has in the last hour claimed
responsibility for the attack
but this will ramp pressure on Israel to
do more to secure the northern border
and we know the US is deeply worried
there was a phone call on Saturday
between Lloyd Austin the US defense
secretary and Y of Gant saying that not
only should more Aid get into Gaza they
should take more care when they came to
their operations there to avoid civilian
casualties he also reiterated that it
was important that this conflict did not
escalate into a regional conflict and
therefore any actions on the northern
border would be viewed very wearily by
the Pentagon thank you Alan for that
Alan Fischer with the latest a from
occupied East Jerusalem well earlier I
spoke to Andrea tenen who's the
spokesman for UniFi that's the United
Nations interim force in Lebanon he told
us the potential for miscalculation that
could trigger a wider conflict along the
Israel Lebanon border is
increasing for last five weeks there has
been a Contin continuous exchanges of
fire between the two sides between
Lebanon and Israel along the line very
intense exchanges of fire and uh and the
far as we are going now the fifth week
the second month of this conflict of
course the potential for miscalculation
is increasing and and the miscalculation
of course could potentially trigger a
wider conflict and uh both sides have
been hit even last night one of our
peacekeepers was was injured inside one
of our bases uh we are still trying to
find out the origin of the fire uh that
is currently now under investigation but
uh the the situation has been tense and
concerning a tense situation as you say
an escalation along that border with as
you mentioned one of your peacekeepers
being uh injured are you able to operate
in these conditions are you able to
maintain stability along this border
when your own troops have come under
attack
well we the mission has been doing its
outmost for the last five weeks to uh to
be able to be operational we are still
on the ground our peacekeepers are close
to the Blue Line we have 10,500
peacekeepers from 49 different countries
we continue to operate even to monitor
the blue line and also the the work of
the head of mission and Force Commander
Lieutenant General Lazar has been
fundamental in keeping a dialogue with
the parties unifil is the only one who
can actually keep a conversation with
the lean authorities and with the IDF uh
to try to prevent very dangerous
misunderstanding that's a role that we
we are playing on a on an hourly basis
with both sides to try to decrease the